Hello and welcome.
In this lecture, we're going to be getting our A.I. to be patrolling back and forth between allocations.
So I'll go to my original start location, then I'll go back to his start location, wait a little bit
and then go again.
We're gonna be achieving this via at behavior trees.
So let's dive in and see how it's done.
So even now, we haven't made much use of our behavior, trailers fix that.
We're going to create a behavior that allows us to go from the place where we're starting to the player's
location and then go back to our original starting location.
Now, the way we're going to do this is using the following.
So there is a distinction in behavior, trees between things called tasks and things called composite
nodes, or in this case, the example of the composite node is a sequence.
So let's understand sequences and tasks as they kind of sound.
A task is something you do.
A sequence is a sequence of such tasks and it will run all of the tasks in order.
So if you write, click and expand out the tasks here, you can see an example of what could be used
as a task.
For example, we can have move to moves to a location has moved directly to as well.
I'm not entirely sure of that section we're gonna be using move to.
You can get to play an animation such as a scratch your nose animation.
You can get them to play a sound like, hey, you.
That sort of stuff.
You can get it to run another animal behavior if you want to.
There's also a weight here, which is very useful for adding in some pauses into your behavior.
Now, what's interesting about these tasks is that they can run for multiple frames, for multiple ticks.
So move to will be running the entire time that you are moving to a location and it'll only finish when
you get there.
So if we did a move to and we had, we can stick it in the sequence here by just dragging down from
the sequence node, then what you're going to get is, first of all, is going to try and move to the
destination.
And then we could add in a second task node, which tells it to wait.
Then we can add in a third test task node notes.
I'm pulling down from the sequence here and releasing, which allows me to add in a task quite quickly
underneath that sequence node.
And then I can tell it.
I want to move to another location and then I can tell it.
I want to wait again for a certain amount of time.
Now, this is the basics of that, moving to the player, then moving back to where we started from.
And you can see how the sequence node is working here.
Now, as a root node as well, the root A. can only have one child node.
So don't try and add more things under that.
So we've got one sequence node as the root here, and that's basically saying that I'm going to run
all of these tasks in order until one of them fails.
And then once we're finished, we can start the process again.
So the other thing to note here is that if you click on any one of these nodes, the details over here
give us some impact over how that node works.
For example, our move to currently takes a blackboard key in the blackboard section of its details,
pain of self actor.
We can change that over to the play location.
So that's basically saying this move to node will now move to our player location.
Then we've got to wait five seconds by default, but we can change that again to say we might want to
wait two seconds and you might want to have a random deviation of one second so that basically we'll
be waiting somewhere between one second, three seconds.
Then we want to move to a different location.
And that's a location that we don't currently have, which is our start location.
So go ahead and add that.
Let's go over to our blackboard, add a new key, add a vector, and have that as our start location.
And then we can go back to the behavior tree and see that at Mutu Node.
If you go to the details, Payne now has the start location as an option.
And then we might say, we want to wait five seconds and then the process will start again because we'll
have successfully completed our sequence note.
So this is our works.
You step down into the sequence.
Note the sequence node then says, okay, well, where am I at?
I want to start at the beginning and you can see there's no rings here are telling us the execution
order.
We start zero, which is the sequence node one is the move two, then two is wait three, move to four,
etc. So we step through doing each task until completion or failure.
If we fail, then a sequence node will fail as a whole.
None of these are likely to fail, however.
So we'll go through the whole thing and then the sequence node will complete.
And the route will start it again.
So we're going to go through an A loop, going to the play location.
Waiting.
Going back to the start location, waiting for a little bit longer.
So that's the power of behavior trees.
And you can start to nest these deeper.
You can have choices in here.
You can have decorator's all the stuff that we're gonna see in upcoming lectures.
But this is the basis of it.
A series of instructions that your A.I. can run and they can take more than one frame to complete.
Now, what we want to do is actually set this start location to be something meaningful.
Now, that should be reasonably straightforward.
The only thing I probably want to tell you how to do is how do we get hold of the porn that we are in
control of.
So just.
A reminder that if we go over to the controller dot h here, then we can have a look for the.
Get porn and get porn method for both player controllers and A.I. controllers allows us to get hold
of the porn that is being controlled.
So you can use this to get the porn being controlled and get its location that begin play in order to
set our start location.
So here's the challenge to you.
Set Astarte location, get the porn's location.
As we've just talked a little bit about, set the correct Blackbaud Key.
Use the player position that we've already used as a template for that.
Set up the behavior tree the way I have in the lecture and test it out, see if that behavior gets the
desired behavior of the player or the enemy.
Moving to the player's pawn and then back to its original starting location, pulls a video and have
a go.
Kay, welcome back.
So hopefully that worked out for you.
Let's give it a shot.
So I'm going to copy the line for our play location.
And instead of setting the play location to go to our blackboard, have a look at our start location.
We're going to copy that key value in here.
And then instead of getting the location of the play pawn, we're doing to do a get pawn and then get
actor location, which is going to get the pawn that we're currently controlling and get its location
in the world so we can go ahead and go back to the editor and compile this.
And once that's done, hit play and have a look at our pawn.
He comes over, moves towards us.
He waits three seconds or two seconds or one second, and then goes back to his original star location.
And then he waits five seconds and then he comes back over to that original location to play pool.
And so he's not updating that every frame.
That's okay.
That's how we designed it.
At the moment.
But you can see the behavior going on.
He's patrolling back and forth.
So let's have a look at the all of this in action.
Have a look at our behavior tree.
If we go back to our behavior change, select the A.I. in question.
You can see where he's at.
He's moving to he's waiting so many seconds.
Then he's moving to his start location.
He's waiting again.
So we can undock this and see both of these things happening at the same time in our game.
You can see he's moving to that location.
He's waiting now.
He is back to moving it to his start location.
This is really handy for us to be able to debug, especially when these behaviors get a little bit more
complicated.
And it also gives you a sense of how unreal is calculating the behavior tree and how that execution
flow is working within our behavior tree.
Great stuff.
In the next lecture, we're going to make these behaviors even more complicated and add some element
of decision to whether we choose to follow a player or whether we choose to stay put where we are.
I'll see you in that lecture.